Name: Shiva Thakur
Project Name: Credit Card Fraud Detection
ABSTRACT: Fraud is one of the major ethical issues in the credit card industry. The main aims are, firstly, to identify the different types of credit card fraud, and, secondly, to review alternative techniques that have been used in fraud detection. The sub-aim is to present, compare and analyze recently published findings in credit card fraud detection. This article defines common terms in credit card fraud and highlights key statistics and figures in this field. Depending on the type of fraud faced by banks or credit card companies, various measures can be adopted and implemented. The proposals made in this paper are likely to have beneficial attributes in terms of cost savings and time efficiency. The significance of the application of the techniques reviewed here is in the minimization of credit card fraud. Yet there are still ethical issues when genuine credit card customers are misclassified as fraudulent.
Random Forest:  Random forest is a type of supervised machine learning algorithm based on ensemble learning. Ensemble learning is a type of learning where you join different types of algorithms or same algorithm multiple times to form a more powerful prediction model. The random forest algorithm combines multiple algorithm of the same type i.e. multiple decision trees, resulting in a forest of trees, hence the name "Random Forest". 
The random forest algorithm can be used for both regression and classification tasks. 8.2 WORKING OF RANDOM FOREST The following are the basic steps involved in performing the random forest algorithm 
1. Pick N random records from the dataset. 
2. Build a decision tree based on these N records. 
3. Choose the number of trees you want in your algorithm and repeat steps 1 and 2. 
4. For classification problem, each tree in the forest predicts the category to which the new record belongs. Finally, the new record is assigned to the category that wins the majority vote.
CONCLUSION:
The Random forest algorithm will perform better with a larger number of training data, but speed during testing and application will suffer. Application of more pre-processing techniques would also help. The SVM algorithm still suffers from the imbalanced dataset problem and requires more preprocessing to give better results at the results shown by SVM is great but it could have been better if more preprocessing have been done on the data.

